>> Speaker 2: So even though you're
getting the source images from Instagram,
you're getting them on the server side.
And you're doing all your source
all your transformation and
writing out to multiple images in the
static directory and then serving them up.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so
that works here because we're
running a dev server for it.
But they're not really static because
you're getting the top twelve of them.
>> Jason Lengstorf: It will update
every time the site builds.
So if you wanted this to always
be up to date you could,
I don't think Instagram supports web hooks
but you could use something like Zapier.
And you could have Zapier every time
there's a new Instagram post trigger a web
hook that would rebuild your Gatsby site
>> Speaker 2: Okay
>> Jason Lengstorf: So that way you would
always be able to kind of have the most up
to date version of whatever your data is.
That's a pretty standard
approach is to use web hooks or
something like Zapier to to
re-trigger a build when data changes.
But yeah, but
to answer your question, yes.
It's not actually live.
So if you didn't rebuild the site,
whenever you post a new thing,
it's not gonna show up here.
You would have to rebuild
the site to get the latest data.
>> Speaker 3: But you could.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Yeah,
you absolutely can.
You just have to trigger a build.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: So unhelpfully I have
a question about the previous section
actually.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay.
[LAUGH] >> Speaker 4: We
talked a bit about MDX and then remark.
Are there other competitive strengths
between the two for processing markdown,
beyond what you can put.
Add components and any other, cannot like
Remark has a pretty large ecosystem of
[INAUDIBLE] in your experience.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So MDX is designed to
be compatible with the whole ecosystem of
Remark plugins.
So theoretically MDX should
be Remark plus React support.
That, I don't know if that's 100% true,
but if it's not true,
it's because it's a bug,
not because it's not planned.
So in practice MDX should
have all the features
of Remark as well as the ability to
embed jsx into your markdown documents.
>> Speaker 4: Good to know thanks.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Anyone else?
See one back there.
>> Speaker 5: What if a post
contains multiple photos?
>> Jason Lengstorf: In
markdown that won't matter.
The same thing will happen.
So if we look at this one,
you can put as many posts,
as many images as you want in there.
For example, this is my website,
and on the, let's see.
I think one of these has.
Here's one, I think.
So this one has a bunch of images in it.
And these are all just embedded
in regular markdown and
Gatsby will pick them up and and fix them.
If you're doing something
like I think in this one,
I believe these images are embedded
in using regular Gatsby image.
I just setup multiple queries.
And so the way that you would
setup those multiple queries is,
let's say you wanted to do a file.
And you would want the, I don't know,
let's say the relative path is,
let's see, trying to do this on the fly.
The regex and that would be Nicole.
I think that's gonna get me what I want.
Yep, and then I wanted to do another one.
So I would set the relative path and
this one would be regx for let's say,
or, by default, what's going to happen
is it's going to yell at me, right?
But what I can do, is I can alias these.
And now I get both files.
So if you need multiple images,
you can just write the same query and
alias it like so.
And that'll give you the ability to
make the same, like the same query
as many times as you need without having
to put them in different files or
something like that.
>> Speaker 5: What about handling video?
>> Jason Lengstorf: Video support is,
I mean,
we have like a YouTube source plugin.
We have an embed video plugin.
There's this really cool oEmbed
plugin that will do that.
If you are,
like we don't auto-optimize MP4 files or
anything, to the best of my knowledge.
In my experience almost everybody is
using some kind of video hosting.
Whether that is one of the big name ones
like YouTube or Vimeo or whether that
is something like Cloud Neri for video
hosting is kind of like an asset CDN.
Because of that, it seemed like
duplicate effort to try to optimize
video files because everybody else is
already doing such a good job of that.
But yeah, so there's great video support
if you want to put videos in, but
we're not going to do any optimization for
it.
>> Speaker 5: How about other
data sources like Wordpress?
>> Jason Lengstorf: Yeah, we have
a we have a Wordpress source plugin.
It just hooks into the WordPress REST API
and you are able to run a full site of it.
So this is a blog that is
powered by WordPress and it
loads in like WordPress data, supports the
category stagging, all that good stuff.
But, yeah, you don't have to do anything
special there, it just loads in that data.
>> Speaker 5: In that case,
you couldn't use like MDX with Wordpress?
>> Jason Lengstorf: With Wordpress,
I can see a path to making that work but
it would probably,
like that would be an advanced use case.
>> Speaker 3: I mean you would have
to do this in the WordPress packet.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Well
you could write MDX
in your WordPress editor,
and then export that and
re-import it as an MDX file in Gatsby
that would get it processed as MDX.
It would be-
>> Speaker 3: You
could also shoot yourself in the foot.
>> Jason Lengstorf: It'd
be a little hinky for sure.
Like, I would say that falls very
firmly into like, here be dragons,
cuz you're starting to do
some really custom stuff.
It doesn't mean it's impossible, though.
Like you could probably make it work.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Any other questions?
>> Speaker 6: So
all third party sources need a plugin.
>> Jason Lengstorf: I
mean they don't need one.
You're always welcome to-
>> Speaker 6: Go rouge?
>> Jason Lengstorf: Yeah, I mean if you
want to use Axios and just do a fetch for
data, you can 100% do that.
There's nothing that stops
you from doing that.
We've got a whole doc, in fact,
on Gatsby without Graph QL.
If you want to build a Gatsby site and
you don't feel like using Graph QL,
you can absolutely do it.
This doc will walk you
through how that works.
What I'm trying to do here is explain,
why.
We also have kind of
a philosophical page on
why we use GraphQL then I'll walk through
the progressive complexity of things.
This includes an Egghead
course that'll kind of
walk through all the different pieces.
But yeah, the data sources, it's
easier if they come in with a plug-in.
Because that's gonna give you a lot of
the convenience stuff that Gatsby does.
If you want to use Gatsby's API's to
create nodes, that's the same as a plugin.
All a plugin under doing under the hood is
calling source nodes and on create node
and a handful of other Gatsby node API's
that put things into the graph QL layer.
So you can put whatever you want in there.
It doesn't necessarily require a plug in.
It's just for
convenience it's usually easier if
you can find one that has a plug in.
And if you end up doing this for something
that doesn't have a plug in it would mean
a lot to the community and to me if you
were to publish that as a plug in so
that everybody else can get
the benefit of that work